fix: Use specific staging config check for mail delivery (#13280)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-10-30-use-specific-staging-config-check-for-mail-delivery.md

---
title: Use staging config and staging mail delivery flag for mail delivery check
author: Marcus Müller
author_email: 25648755+M-arcus@users.noreply.github.com
author_github: @M-arcus
---
# Core

> * Changed the disabled delivery check in `MailSender` to for the Staging Mode `core.staging`, the `shopware.staging.mailing.disable_delivery` configuration and the config setting `shopware.mailing.disable_delivery`

Reviewer: Nitpick, but I think it's easier to understand by adding a bit more context like this:
```suggestion
* Changed the disabled delivery check in `MailSender`. In Staging Mode `core.staging`, the `shopware.staging.mailing.disable_delivery` configuration is applied. Regardless of Mode the config setting `shopware.mailing.disable_delivery` always allows to disable mail delivery.
```

___
# Upgrade Information
## Staging configuration

> The disabled delivery check in `MailSender` now checks for the Staging Mode `core.staging`, the `shopware.staging.mailing.disable_delivery` configuration and the config setting `shopware.mailing.disable_delivery`.

Reviewer: see above

Author: fixed

---
title: Use specific staging config check for mail delivery
author: Marcus Müller
author_email: 25648755+M-arcus@users.noreply.github.com
author_github: @M-arcus
---
# Core

> * Changed the test mode check in `MailService` from the general staging flag to the flag `shopware.staging.mailing.disable_delivery`

Reviewer 2: this sentence also needs to adjusted. 

additionally I would like to add a `Upgrade information` section. as said this leads to different behaviour and people should be made aware of this. the changelog files are usually not read, but the upgrade guides are

Author: I adjusted the sentence and added an Upgrade section

Author: I added test
